Title:
A Graph ML Analysis of Senatorial Twitter Accounts

Abstract:
This project’s main inquiry is into whether there is a tangible difference in the way that Democrat members of Congress speak and interact on social media in comparison to Republican members of Congress. If there are such differences, this project will leverage them to train a suitable ML model on this data for node classification. That is to say, this project aims to determine a Senator’s political affiliation based off of a) their Twitter relationships to other Senators b) their speech patterns, and c) other mine-able features on Twitter. In order to truly utilize the complex implicit relationships hidden in the Twitter graph, we can use models such as Graph Convolutional Networks, which apply the concept of “convolutions” from CNNs to a graph network-oriented framework. These GCNs learn feature representations for each node in the Twitter graph and utilize those representations to fuel the aforementioned node classification task. However useful the GCN may be, there is no shortage of other graph ML techniques that could lend themselves to the prediction task at hand. Of particular interest are inductive graph ML techniques; inductive Graph Networks are a new assortment of Graph Networks that no longer need to be trained on a whole graph to get feature representations for all nodes in the dataset (transductive). Instead, inductive techniques like GraphSage peer into the structural composition of all the nodes in a graph by building neighborhood embeddings for each node. By using a medley of networks on this dataset, we gain deeper insight into what kind of graph we are working with. In other words, if more complex techniques like GraphSage outrank vanilla GCNs, it would point to an equally complex structural composition within the graph that only an inductive technique like GraphSage would be able to pinpoint. However, it is harder to train any network without features. In the case of our analysis, these features will be some text embedding of a politician's tweets. Solutions like word2vec or even a sentiment analysis metric that aggregate across the hundreds of thousands of tweets posted by the 116th Congress could prove quite useful as features for the training of the aforementioned models.
